# Introduction

There are already several repositories and courses that cover the foundations of Machine Learning. Here are a few of them:

- https://github.com/jonkrohn/ML-foundations, and
- https://github.com/dontless/Machine-Learning-Foundations-A-Case-Study-Approach.

Most of these resources are designed to get you to the starting line. They provide just enough material for you to get a job doing machine learning, or for you to get started on machine learning projects. However, if you have ever tried reading a theoretical machine learning paper from a conference like [COLT](http://www.learningtheory.org/colt2021/accepted.html) or one of the more advanced applied papers from a conference like [ICML](https://icml.cc/Conferences/2021/Schedule?type=Poster), it is usually clear that a lot is missing from these "foundational" curricula.

Some might argue that the best way to learn this missing material is to just dive in and start reading papers. Try to figure out the missing concepts on the fly. That is exactly what I have been doing over the past few years, and I am sad to say that this approach is very insufficient. While it may get you to a place where you can understand the research superficially, this top-down model leaves you with a deep sense of inadequacy; a feeling that you are lacking something base. With this approach, you eventually realize that you lack a cohesive narrative and many foundational concepts. You find it difficult to see the work in a wider theoretical and applied context, and have a hard time identifying nontrivial extensions. The need to go back and relearn some of the mathematical foundations then becomes imperative. This is exactly what I went through, and if you have had a similar experience, I hope this resource will be of some help to you.

If you have no experience with machine learning at all, then I would encourage you to take an intro class in machine learning to see just how cool this field is. One example of such a course is (https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning) by Andrew Ng. Machine learning is one of the most exciting fields to have blossomed over the past decade, and there are still a plethora of untapped applications to many of the existing techniques. I urge you to explore as much as you can, and also to start reading papers and thinking of extensions to contemporary work. This material should be seen more as a complement than a prerequisite to your machine learning journey. If you find yourself struggling with some of the advanced material, or you get a gnawing sense that you are missing something fundamental while reading the literature, then maybe something from this resource can help you.

For those of you who already have some experience with machine learning, I hope this resource can act as a good reference and review checklist. There are many topics and perspectives to consider any machine learning problem through. While you may be familiar with some of the ideas listed here, I hope this repository presents a few alternative viewpoints that you may have neglected to consider your problems through. Hopefully, these alternative lenses can highlight some key, deep insights into your problem that would otherwise have lied dormant. Furthermore, having a systematic checklist for review items can also help focus and prioritize future explorations. By going through the topics listed here, you can identify areas of high impact that you may not completely comfortable with. Focusing on these areas has the potential to maximize the utility of your explorations.

My goal with this repository is to create a curated list of resources for those who want to do a deeper dive into some of the more advanced foundations of machine learning. I hope that anyone with a high school background in math and CS who goes through all the material here will successfully be able to read and carry out state-of-the-art research in both theoretical and applied machine learning feeling empowered and confident in their work.

The rest of this document is organized into several different sub-fields, with accompanying learning resources, that I think are necessary to gain this advanced foundation in machine learning.

